# API Reference

Examples given from a base of

```js
const FCG = require('fantasy-content-generator');
```

but all API methods work with the direct `<script>` include too.

**All** items below should be taken as WIP. We're following [Semver](https://semver.org/), but assume that everything may change in the future for future versions!

## `Names`

Generate names for a race and gender, based on D&D 5E. All base races in the 5E PHB are supported.

**Functions**

- `generate();`
- `dragonborn();`
- `dwarf();`
- `elf();`
- `gnome();`
- `halfElf();`
- `halfOrc();`
- `halfling();`
- `human();`
- `tiefling();`

```js
FCG.Names.generate({ race: 'elf', gender: 'male' }) // 'Hadarai Liadon'
```

If no race and/or gender given, one will be chosen at random for each.

```js
FCG.Names.generate(); // 'Sutha Chernin', a female Half-Orc
```

Names based on race can also be generated by calling the race directly on the `Names` object as a function.

```js
FCG.Names.elf(); // an elf with a random gender
FCG.Names.elf({ gender: 'female' }); // a female elf
```

## `Storyhooks`

Generate short, interesting things to happen that can spur on an encounter or spice things up if they're getting stale.

**Functions**

- `npcActs();`

**NPC Acts**

An NPC does something.

```js
FCG.Storyhooks.npcActs(); // 'An NPC becomes fearful'
```

## `NPCs`

Generate NPCs

**Functions**

- `generate();`

A generated NPC will have a race, a gender and a name (based on the race and gender).

**NPC character traits, desires, flaws and relationships coming soon!**
```js
FCG.NPCs.generate();

/*
{
  name: 'Silaqui Liadon',
  gender: 'female',
  race: 'elf',
}
*/
```

You can pass an object with `race` or `gender` params into `generate()` to ensure those values.

## Magic Items

Generate magical items, with names, effects, school of magic and power level

**Currently only generating melee weapons! More flavours of magic items to come soon!**

**Functions**

- `generate();`

A generated magic item. *Currently only generates weapons*.

Generated magic items will have;

- `type`
  - the base "role" of the item.
- `subtype`
  - `subtype`s depend on base type. for `type` 'weapon', for example, `subtype` will be melee weapons.
- `schoolOfMagic`
  - 'conjuration', 'necromancy', etc.
- `effects`
  - any magic effects the item has
- `formattedData`
  - some pre-built strings for you to use

```js
FCG.MagicItems.generate({ type: 'weapon'});

/*
{
  type: 'weapon',
  subtype: 'War Pick',
  powerLevel: 'greater',
  schoolOfMagic: 'evocation',
  effects: [
    'The blade of this weapon crackles with magical energy. When swung in front of a group of creatures, 2  of the creatures are struck with bolts of energy. Each affected creature takes 3d4 Lightning damage, and b ecomes Paralyzed for 2 rounds.'
  ],
  formattedData: {
    title: 'War Pick of Greater Evocation'
  }
}
*/
```